Hello again the life for God.
People in this video we're going to finish the game.
We're not finishing a project which is making the game itself complete.
We can add a lot of Polish afterwards.
But by the end of this video we're going to have a fully functional viable product prototype.
It was hard to say but you know why are we doing this.
We're wiring the gooey when to connect the grease so the player can see the score which means that we're
going to have all of our major game play omundson.
So let's get into it.
And the first thing I do is open the gooey scene.
This is the gooey scene we did last time here's my lovely little banner and I might add a script to
the gooey to the canvas.
Note the root note of this scene.
Why am I putting it here because going to be much easier to deal with in the actual game scene.
If I don't have to go editable children and find the individual components.
So the gooey is going to be responsible for everything beneath it.
So when I open up our scripts folder and call it goofy and it's good to go.
I get caught.
So let's talk about what's going to happen when a goal is scored that can be right here on goal detection
body entered.
We already have a couple of pieces of information.
The first is what's entering the body.
Now that's a default argument that's passed on from the signal.
And honestly I don't really care about it.
I can't remove it easily because it's got it.
The singles passing automatically but I don't need it.
I know the ball is entering is the only thing that cannot.
Want to do care about is the goldney.
So.
I'm going to pass that information through into the going.
No this goal idae is reverse warming by reverse.
Take a look at the games thing.
Goldie one is the greengard.
So let's play a tu's goal.
Why.
Because when a ball goes in their play or one gets the point not player too.
So I've reversed them alright.
The other thing I should talk about is what's what node is responsible for what I want to keep as close
to the single responsibility principle as I can.
Right I don't want to split the responsibility between notes too much as far as I'm concerned in mind
game.
The gooey is responsible for displaying score in end game information just displaying.
That's all it does.
Now you could make an argument that the gooley is going to be the thing that keeps the score and it
tracks score and it just passes information of okay the game is over.
You could make that argument but I'm going to keep the score in the game so I'm going to make a couple
of variables in here.
Put a capital on Player 1 because snowed in that's the conventions I play on one score and that's a
starter zero.
I would duplicate that and this one is player to score because that's numbers.
And if he grew up in England in the 90s and you heard that or even Britain he might have said that's
no Wang.
If so those points for you.
I've got the score and on goal detection I want to update the score.
Right so let's make an update score function here instead of printing.
Play a one has scored.
I don't care about that.
Let's make update goal and I'm going to pass through this Goldie.
At least I would do if I could type.
So we now have.
Update.
Go let's make a new function.
It's coming to a distraction free mode and give ourselves lots of space.
So we're doing two lines below the previous function function update score.
Is that what I call it a call to update goal as the running.
Were not updating the goal or updating the score.
So update Scott and we're bringing in an argument.
Now remember this function doesn't really care what this argument means just what it is.
And in fact I can rename it which I'm going to do.
I'm going to call this player.
It's the same argument right.
What's happening is God is looking at what the position of the argument is.
If I have multiple positions if I have player name age date of birth favourites my little pony.
I don't know much about them my little ponies but I taught a girl who was obsessed with something called
a shutterfly.
It doesn't matter what names I give these values.
I need to use those names within the function but they could be called other things in the function
that passed them in.
Just like here.
What does matter is the order they come in.
Right so if we think of this as an array array 0 the first position rammer 0 offset is going to be this
right so it doesn't matter what I call it macourt Play WIP is going make more sense in here.
Okay so if player is 1.
So if the player is one if Player 1 has scored a goal or play to a score an own goal that's also a viable
thing.
Player 1 score their list goes up by 1.
All right so that makes sense.
And if it's player to then play a two score goes up by 1.
At this stage we should probably have a maximum right now.
We haven't put one of those in yet so let's put in a maximum of score because otherwise the game gone
forever which it can do.
But I feel like a victory condition is going to be useful.
Let's put this in the inspect list given export variable of Max in on the score.
And let's set this four five right now.
Export very well so I could change an inspector.
Honestly in a project this size I could just change the script each time.
But you know I've had it.
I want to now send that information to the goalie.
I'm happy with the idea the goalie is always going be a direct child of game.
It's lots of other children but it's not a sub child a grandchild of some kind right.
Goofy isn't in staff positions it's not in players.
If you're not happy about this you can use a trick you've been using a fine.
Right so you could get Tre get root find noad gooey.
That's fine.
I'm not going to do that because I am pretty happy with it so I'm going to find the goalie.
Let's go in here and make an update score.
I need a ready function.
OK we need two pieces of information right we need the player I need the score.
Great so let's get start back into the game state.
I need to call the update funk optical function.
It is great and I'm a past player and a variable I need to pass through the put the player score.
Now I could make update score exist in both of these conditions right so if it's player one incorrect
player score by one update score play a one player one score.
But I don't really wanna keep repeating this in both and right now we only have two players but what
if we have I don't know.
The same would make a game like this where we have four teams playing at once the same pitch which will
be kind of Wheating crazy and I actually kind of like that.
So what they do is at the top of function and make a new very new score.
Can't think of a better thing for now but that's.
New score equals play on score.
And then I'm going to duplicate that and move it down and over here you score.
Player to score.
So whoever scores were going to make that new score variable their current score.
Now I can do stuff for this.
I first came past the goalie right so I can go new score.
Great so we can now use that information.
You I can do is check if we've reached the maximum score.
It's really much easier with one variable right so we can check
check if the game is over and I'm going to pass in the new score.
And you know what let's make a little gap here so we can make it nice and obvious what's happening.
OK let's quickly make a function call check game over soon forget it.
Check.
Game over.
And I'm just gonna pass is something called score.
I'm a pass that for now.
Before we actually make this thing because I can leave it with a pass.
That's fine I'll just run the function and do nothing.
That's an easy function to run.
Let's go to the QE and actually display the school to do this.
I'm going back into the gooey scene so that auto complete works.
I have player to score and play once score.
Alright now we have two possible players and we're getting the player information in so we know who
scored.
Let's not write an IF condition instead lets use get known.
Because get no use as a strength.
If I bring in the player 1 score as a strings go drag it in because I love this trek ops long drive
into the right place because I love that trick even more.
So we are now bringing in a string that is a reference right.
Okay so some people hate string referencing I know Ben as he's watching this.
It's spitting because it makes them angry.
But check this out.
I can count cats an 8 in the value of play because I've got my notes named play a one score play to
score.
I'm getting a valuable player.
I can just stick that in right so I can get that no.
OK let's use that as a very not so variable score label.
I need a better name for that.
We're.
Get node there so we're gonna get that.
So now it's use.
So let's go.
Gonna lay all there it is.
Text equals so cast that as a string.
Now if Player 1 scores.
There's a point.
And if Player 2 scores an own goal which would help if I can actually play my own game.
Oh goodness.
Talk among yourselves the bigger player one gets the point.
And I could put this over here.
Great.
Now this is recycling stuff a little bit I should probably do something with the labels but I can worry
about that.
We start adding polish.
Right now we have an update score.
Fantastic.
Okay.
Now let's talk about what happens when the game is over first going to win the game is over is I want
to stop the timer from working somehow I need to stop the ball right.
I don't want it to respawn the game is now over.
I think the easiest thing to do is probably to delay the time because of the time as deleted.
We'll never get on time a time out and the pitch won't reset so let's try that let's try timer dot Q
free Q free.
Okay let's set the maximum score.
Find out all one.
So one player one will score a goal.
And the timer won't happen.
There's no bug.
Nothing happened.
Great.
Secondly to do is we need to tell the gooey tell the players the game is over.
So all I need to do is tell the guy.
He's in the right capitals.
Game over.
And I just realize that the reason my test worked is not so much because the maximum score is 1.
I'm actually not using that yet am I.
And he's put in if condition.
If score is equal to maximum score that would have been embarrassing.
Then do these things wouldn't elsen because if it doesn't happen we're just going to ignore this function.
Great.
Now let's make a game overfunctioning gooey and see how that works.
Now if we look at the good season we've already made this pop up right so this pop up shops are game
over and play again.
So I need to do two things I need to make this button work and I need to figure out how to show the
game the pop up while it start with the pop up so on function.
Game over.
And just because I don't trust my own typos.
Yup that's how I typed it.
Great.
So what's going to happen while wiggling a pop up dot.
Shut up.
Pop up centred and that should do it now.
The button won't show yet.
And just a check that I haven't messed up the script.
Let's change the maximum score to 2 right.
I don't want this showing on the first goal.
A player one scores her player play on scores again.
There it is gameover now the button doesn't do anything right now.
That's fine.
Let's make it do stuff.
So we now have an ability to show the game is over a wire and this button as a signal on button press
and that's going straight to the goalie.
I'm not going to rename it because we only have one button now because it's just in one thing.
I'm okay running this and agree.
Strictly speaking this violates the single responsibility principle.
Right.
I really said that the guy is only responsible for gooey stuff.
So even as I'm saying I change your mind it's going to it's parrot.
Lets make the game deal with restart games.
I think a function called Restart game.
And we're going to get goolies parent because we've already decided it's always in direct child so that's
fine.
If not going to have to use your get tree get root find.
But OK so let's go get parent pregnant.
I can spell there is get a parent and I want to call the new function I just made which is restart giving
reasons not completing.
Haven't seen the script to restart again.
I will check that.
Great.
So what's that going to do.
Well let's get into the right scenes.
Alter.
It's just going to rerun the scene.
I'm not going to change scene.
Reason is were in this scene.
If I say change scene to the current scene there's a chance of my go.
I don't need to.
I'm already here so let's not do that attitude get tree and I'm going to use reload current scenes which
does exactly what you might expect.
And if I've done this correctly now what Maxum score is to let's see what happens.
I press once.
And twice I pressed play again and we restart the game.
Fantastic.
Now I am going to fix the bug with the where you just move side to side a little bit.
And I'm pretty sure the reason here is because these labels where they play are to score play at once
school are aligned to the left and then reciting the exelis and line them to the centre.
And we're going to give them a minimum size So what do you think.
Scott who racked current size 16 and give them a minimum size of a note that's thought that's the height
what the width has given the current size of 90 and 90 to resize the banner.
But that's okay I can do that.
Here we go.
Size is currently 900 let's call it a thousand.
And just to make everything nice and clear going to recentre at the top.
And it's now going to go.
Let's just check that I haven't broken everything.
Score a goal.
Yeah I press this button now current.
I don't have any feedback.
There's no sound nothing else will put them in with the Polish.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to change the text on game over.
That tells me who's who won.
So if I look here.
Game over play again.
That doesn't tell me a lot of information change this so that say Player 1 wins player 2 wins.
How you want to put it.
Hooray for player one player two is victorious.
Go go nuts.
Be creative but show me who won.
So possibly you give that a shot and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
All right so the easiest way of doing this is to build on what we already have.
We already have game over and all I need to do is bring in an extra piece of information I need to know
who scored the last goal because it's impossible for two people to score at the same time in this game
because the goals aren't in the same place and there's only one ball.
If we ever change that if we have a game of football with five balls which you could do by the way you
could absolutely make this as crazy you wanted this wouldn't work for now it'll work.
But in order for this work let's actually pass that information in.
Otherwise God is going to go.
I'm expecting an argument.
Where's the arguments in game over.
I want to bring through the player which means I need whoever scored in here and we may as well use
the exact same format we've got to but isn't it confusing.
Play a new score.
That information is all in this function so that's fine and in check him over his player new score new
score doesn't need ring remey naming because it's fine.
Now this player information is passed it's game over and we can now change the text so let's make sure
I'm in the right scene.
Look at the scene tree and I want to change the label on my pop up size.
This one here sir into my scripts and
Pa label in lowercase because it's not an old equals and I'm just going to get the notes.
Alice put the dollar sign in and drag it over and I don't need these quotations.
OK.
So there's the label label dot.
Text equals player space plus player as a string.
He's a cast that in.
Space wins.
That should work just fine by me.
Put it in brackets just to make it nice and clear that this is all one argument.
I think I'll probably be fine without it but I find this more readers really.
I find it more readable not necessarily easier to say but definitely more readable.
I might have to recite this just to be sure I'm going to go to my to you and player 0 wins.
OK.
So let's just change the size of that celestra 500 pixels.
Yeah that's fine.
So far I've got about 200.
That's looking good and you know what the button doesn't need to recite itself so let's switch off expand
on the button switch fell off the button.
It doesn't need to do that and to make the button centred I think there's only one way of doing this
in the V box containers.
Put a centre container because that's what it does.
Ray sent us things which means the button signal will now break.
So let's fix that disconnect and reconnect to going and should go back to the same place and now when
I press play.
Doo doo doo doo doo do one.
Too much more like.
Player 1 wins play again and it's done fantastic.
Which brings us to the end of the video in this video we finished worrying the gooey so we can display
the score information and end the game but we also finished making our game functional somewhat polished
to come as no sound than it yet.
We put the particle effects and nice lighting effects.
But look at that we have our minimum viable product before we go any further.
Why not share what you've got so far.
I'm dying to see how you guys have done your goofy what the picture looks like if you've made any crazy
changes.
How bouncy the ball is.
If he gonny we as colours if you've bought custom models then share your stuff so far and excellent
work and I'll see you in the next video.